go back now to Texas uh and join Heidi
Joe Castro because uh it's the situation
seems to have developed a little bit
more uh since we last spoke a few
moments ago at the University of Texas
Heidi what's going
[Music]
on that's right so Hal so we have this
uh circle of chanters they're protecting
an encampment that was built here in the
last hour then we have this this is the
new development we have uh rows of Texas
Troopers also univers Texas police who
have just arrived on the scene here in
about the last 10 minutes I just heard
the police announcement saying that it
is time to disperse for all of these
protesters to leave immediately or risk
arrest and the reason of course that
they're taking this seriously and that
we're watching this situation is it's
really a Tinder Box given what happened
here last Wednesday when a very similar
scene occurred uh when police officers
uh called by the state governor of Texas
Greg Abbott along with state troopers
similarly dressed came and very uh
people have said in a in a in a
overwhelming show of force arrested some
57 people so I was here uh after that
day happened and up until I have to say
so the last hour or so I was almost
going to report to you that it seems
that that really had a chilling effect
because we didn't see their here on UT
Austin campus like elsewhere and in fact
just this morning speaking to those who
had organized the original protest they
said yeah students were scared and they
were now actually staying off campus to
host events and no one really saw coming
but suddenly things would shift so
quickly and so dramatically in just the
last hour so again you're seeing a group
of students some are graduates of UT
Austin others are
community members in Austin who have
come on campus here they've linked their
arms to protect a few tents that were
erected in the middle of that Circle
this is the exact same area where we saw
those arrests with police on Horseback
and riot gear uh injuring some
protesters last week and again behind me
an ominous sign According to some of the
protesters because they are expecting a
renewed show of force in the moments to
come and talking to them they said that
they are not going to run if they are
charged that they plan on remaining
there calling for the divestment in any
weapons manufacturers from the UT
endowment and any companies linked to
Israel and in support of Palestinian
lives in Gaza and they're committed to
staying there they said they are worried
they are scared about what may happen
but that they will remain so of course
we'll continue to follow events with you
Heidi Joe Castro there for us in the
University of Texas obviously we're also
monitoring what's going on at Colombia
over in New York the same sort of
scenario is happening there with uh
police surrounding the area expecting uh
Theo we'll stay with you I yeah we'll
stay with you
so I'm seeing the arrest Happening
Now shame DJ shame
fash head back to Blue
[Music]
SC water for child
Mur will be all
right be all right
[Music]
push me
[Applause]
walk
[Music]
are they still taking us
live be all
[Music]
[Applause]
you are watching Al jazer and these are
live pictures coming from the University
of Texas we wanted you to actually get a
sense of the atmosphere there that Heidi
Joe Castro has introduced us to over the
past hour or so understanding exactly
what the chants are from the students
and how the police and armed officials
there are dealing or will be dealing it
seems with the assembled crowds there
Heidi Joe Castro I'm sure you can hear
us it's very noisy Heidi and we
appreciate you might not be able to hear
everything that I'm saying but just
describe the images uh and the mood uh
now it's changed dramatically in the
last few
minutes
our our
I don't think Heidi Joe can uh Castro
can hear me quite now but of course we
can see those pictures the uh State
Police uh state troopers have of course
uh encircled it seems uh the student
protesters in the grounds of the
University of Texas uh verbal
confrontations there certainly I think
that gentleman in the blue shirt was
saying he's actually a lecturer uh and
he was there to protect his students or
certainly record
what they are experiencing right now
there's another circle of what I would
describe would be local police uh who
are also uh behind the state troopers
but nothing is being done at the moment
except a standoff uh the demonstrators
incredibly loud and vocal uh expressing
their views about freeing
Palestine uh and their ins solidarity uh
with uh the people of Gaza
the strategy is unsure about what the
state troopers and the local police are
going to do next they moved at least
about 100 yards from where they were
closer to the
students and we I think are just really
watching a standoff at the moment this
is Heidi I'm so sorry I cannot hear what
you're saying but I'm going to tell you
what I'm seeing what I'm seeing is what
appears to be an impending clash between
Texas State Police who as you see are
now arriving more and more now they're
surrounding this small encampment that
is being guarded by student protesters
alumni and community members who linked
their
arms and you're seeing more and more of
the police response arriving there has
no there has been very little conflict
between the two sides and we've been
here since the started about an hour ago
there was one Professor he said that he
was a UT professor was pushed by police
uh there was a verbal
argument but that seems to have ended
but talking to the protesters who are
now behind the police lines now they
told me in the last few minutes before
police arrived that they were very
fearful because of what happened last
Wednesday when there were arrests there
were several students who said they were
injured when there was a very strong
police response that was called by UT
Austin's president Jay Hartzel as well
as the Texas governor Greg Abbott and
since in the in those ensuing days there
had actually been a
relatively quiet protest that was not as
numerous and talking to protesters they
told me that they actually were fearful
that something like this would happen
again they were fearful of being
expelled they were fearful of being
arrested or physically harmed and so
they have really been taking it easy in
these very tightly controlled smaller
protests until about an hour and a half
ago when this suddenly happened and by
this I mean there were people who set up
tents for the first time in UT Austin
kind of following the model of what
we've seen elsewhere Colombia and other
university campuses and then immediately
after setting up those tents they formed
this protective of protesters who linked
arms surrounding this encampment over
the last few days I've seen nothing but
peaceful protest there were people here
singing songs having meetings professors
teaching about Middle East studies Etc
and then suddenly a switch this happened
in the last hour and a half again so I'm
I cannot hear you I believe we're having
some Communications issue but that is
what I'm seeing here to keep an eye on
if there's any sort of
action actually I do see I do see the
police now going in they are using Force
to remove the physical barricade that
looks like either a
mattress or a table that protesters had
erected to help them establish the
circular
perimeter around the
en let them go let go let them go let
you can hear the crowd around me so hell
they're chanting let them go
let let protesters with their arms
linked using
umbrellas as
protection right now you're seeing our
cameraman Ralph o birie he's standing
behind a police officer who's using his
bike to block media from getting any
further in towards the protesters
as the police themselves have formed a
perimeter around the circle
protesters and the people surrounding me
surrounding our camera right now are
actually community members they're not
with the protest themselves per se but
you can hear their
palese palese free pales everyone
watching everyone saying they're here to
Bear
wi prot earlier telling me and telling
the people here please do not leave that
they wanted anything that may happen
between them and police to be captured
on
[Music]
c for those of you watching Al jaer here
welcome you're watching uh live pictures
now from the University of Texas where
within the last half hour state troopers
have encircled it seems a group of
student protesters on the grounds of the
University um and beyond that encircling
our local police as well it seems that
they are about to or indeed have a
strategy to break up this protest in the
grounds of the
university
the state troopers have as yet made no
particular arrests they have tried to
remove some of the
barriers the city police if we can call
that in the dark uniforms uh who do not
and I'm not dressed in full riot gear
have been in a few verbal confrontations
with some of the people looking on you
can see the backs of their heads now
there between them and the students are
two rings of security one of the local
police in dark uniform one of the state
troopers in uh in full riot gear facing
the students now the state troopers
moved closer to the students within the
last 10 minutes or so and as our
correspond Heidi Joe Castro who's in
there um told us that it was relatively
peaceful and uh not too uh serious in
terms of the confrontation when the
state troopers arrived it got a lot more
vocal a lot more noisy obviously uh
various cameras trying to give us images
of what's going on and obviously much
more closer look at the type of
armaments that these stap Troopers have
local police on bikes uh but they are
kitted out uh
defensively uh while are Civ Society if
we can call them that uh members of the
public
onlookers don't have anything except
their
voices uh and their cameras out to see
what is going on as you can see this is
what the state troopers are carrying
they seem to be well armed uh there's
guns there uh batons perhaps some pepper
spray and some those Ruck sacks I think
on the side if I see my Munitions
correctly with the Civil Society members
on the outside of those security uh
cordons chanting let them go I let the
students go not quite sure what the
strategy will be we'll come back to that
uh as that develops from the University
of Texas why are
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer